Tuan Syazana Tuan Ab RashidGeosci 541: PaleobiologyCenozoic latitudinal response curves: individualistic changes in the latitudinal distributions of marine bivalves and gastropodsArticle SummaryThis paper by Andrew A. Zaffos and Arnold I. Miller is a scientific paper on the Cenozoic latitudinal response curves. They characterized epoch-to-epoch and stage-to-stage changes in the latitudinal response curves of Cenozoic marine bivalve and gastropod genera along the global latitudinal gradient using a Gaussian logistic regression model. They then analyzed these changes to understand the mode and tempo of changes in latitudinal distribution of marine bivalve and gastropod genera for different Cenozoic time intervals. They calculate a preferred latitude that represents the central position of the response curve, and latitudinal tolerance that reflects the width of the curve. In aggregate, by time-period-specific conditions, they found that the pace and magnitude of changes in the latitudinal distribution of marine mollusks are not controlled. Their results favor a model of either equatorward migration or no general trend instead of long-term migration from tropical to extratropical latitudes. This likely reflects the tendency of genera to maintain their highest concentrations in the tropics even if their ranges become extended out of the tropics over time.Things I liked about the paper      I like that the author did a good job explaining most of the statistical methods. Since I am not very familiar with statistics, it is usually quite difficult for me to understand but the explanations helped a lot. In particular, what slope meant to range sizes and the hollow curve of the graph. The graphs accompanying it were also relevant. The figures are also generally easy to look at and understand (except for Figure 2 for me). Things I did not like about the paper      I could not really understand Figure 2, which talks about the values of preferred latitude and latitudinal tolerance.    Evaluate the graphs and figures (if any)      There are five figures and a table in this paper and they are relevant to the paper. The first figure is the “representation of a latitudinal response curve”. It shows the core zone of a taxon’s latitudinal distribution. The second figure shows “Values of preferred latitude and latitudinal tolerance cross-plotted for all shared taxa in each combination of Cenozoic epochs”. The third figure is two graphs on the change in preferred latitude and latitudinal tolerance between adjacent epochs in normalized order. The fourth figure is two graphs on the change in preferred latitude and latitudinal tolerance between adjacent Cenozoic stages in normalized order. The third and fourth figures are important in comparing the hollow curves to understand the geographic conservatism of the genera. The fifth figure is a histogram of occurrences in the Paleobiology Database data set for each epoch. There is also a table that lists out “the original mean of the first differences and the average bootstrapped mean of first differences” that resulted in a great consistency across all epoch-level comparisons.